Restrictions clear operation (#417)
MewsSystems/gitbook-connector-api: operations/restrictions.md

Removes restrictions from the service.

> > **Important:** Since the [set restrictions](#set-restrictions) operation is the preffered way to add restrictions, this endpoint becomes unusable when used in conjunction with the set. This is because the set operation does not return the ids of individual restrictions. To delete restrictions added by the set restrictions operation, use the [clear restrictions](#clear-restrictions) operation.

Reviewer: I do not think this paragraph is needed. The endpoint is _not_ unusable, because 'Get all restrictions' returns the IDs of restrictions, including restrictions created by 'Set restrictions'. I think the user can see that there are two similar operations, 'Delete restrictions' and 'Clear restrictions', and can choose which one is appropriate for their use case.

| `MinPrice` | [Currency value](accountingitems.md#currency-value)| optional | Value of the minimum price per time unit. |
| `MaxPrice` | [Currency value](accountingitems.md#currency-value)| optional | Value of the maximum price per time unit. |

## Clear restrictions

> ### Restricted!
> This operation is currently in beta-test and as such it is subject to change. Use of this operation must be enabled per enterprise. Please contact the Technical Partner Support team in order to enable it.

Deletes restrictions that [match the conditions](#matching-conditions) using the [splicing algorithm](#splicing-algorithm).

> This operation is intended to be used in conjunction with [Set restrictions](#set-restrictions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation is intended to be used alongside [Set restrictions](#set-restrictions).
```
And we can delete the space beforehand, so this sentence follows immediately after the previous sentence.

> This operation is intended to be used in conjunction with   [Set restrictions](#set-restrictions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This operation is intended to be used in conjunction with [Set restrictions](#set-restrictions).
```

> 

Reviewer: I would add here:

The specified conditions must be met exactly - see [Matching conditions](#matching-conditions) below. The time interval, however, does not need to correspond with an existing restriction in the system, instead the API uses a splicing algorithm to work out how to divide up any existing restrictions to meet the specified time interval - see [Time interval splicing](#time-interval-splicing).

### Matching conditions

> The [spliced](#splicing-algorithm) restriction must match the specified conditions exactly. Consider the following example:

Reviewer: Replace this section with this:

The specified conditions must be met exactly. For example:

A bookable service has two restrictions A and B. Restriction A applies to resource category C1 and rate R1. Restriction B applies to resource category C1 and to all rates.

If the [Clear restrictions](#clear-restrictions) operation is called, specifying a restriction condition of resource category C1 but with no rate specified (this defaults to all rates), then only Restriction B is cleared, not Restriction A.

> Service has restrictions A and B. Restriction A applies to resource category C1 and rate R1. Restriction B applies to resource category C1 to all rates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Bookable Service has restrictions A and B. Restriction A applies to resource category C1 and rate R1. Restriction B applies to resource category C1 to all rates.
```

> If the clear data specified have specified resource category C1 but do not specify any rate, only restriction B is spliced. Restriction B remains untouch, even though it is applied to resource category C1 as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the clear data specified have supplied the resource category C1 but do not specify any rate, only restriction B is spliced. Restriction B remains untouched, even though it is applied to resource category C1 as well.
```

Author: I know there are repeating words but i still preferr specify since it's used everywhere so it's consistent

> If the clear data specified have specified resource category C1 but do not specify any rate, only restriction B is spliced. Restriction B remains untouched, even though it is applied to resource category C1 as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the clear data specified have specified resource category C1 but do not specify any rate, only restriction B is spliced. Restriction A remains untouched, even though it is applied to resource category C1 as well.
```

Isn't Restriction A untouched because Restriction A applies to a specific resource AND rate? Or am I understanding the logic incorrectly? :)

> ### Splicing algorithm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Time interval splicing
```

> 

Reviewer: Replace this section with this:

The time interval does not need to correspond to an existing restriction in the system, instead the API uses a splicing algorithm to work out how to divide up any existing restrictions to meet the specified time interval. For example:

An existing restriction in the system applies from 5th January to 25th January. As usual, time intervals are inclusive, meaning that the time interval includes both the 5th January and the 25th January.

If the [Clear restrictions](#clear-restrictions) operation is called, specifying a restriction time interval of 10th January to 20th January, i.e. within the original restriction A, then the time interval of restriction A is split into three separate intervals.

The original restriction A is deleted, and in its place new restriction B is created for the period of time from 5th January to 9th January inclusive, and new restriction C is created for the period of time from 21st January to 25th January. Thus the period 10th January to 20th January has been cleared, but without affecting other time periods.

         "EndUtc": "2023-02-22T00:00:00Z",
         "ExactRateId": "7c7e89d6-69c0-4cce-9d42-35443f2193f3",
         "ResourceCategoryId": "86336EAC-4168-46B1-A544-2A47251BF864",
         "Days": {
            "Monday": false,
            "Tuesday": false,
            "Wednesday": false,
            "Thursday": false,
            "Friday": true,
            "Saturday": true,
            "Sunday": true
         }
      },
      {
         "Type": "Start",
         "StartUtc": "2023-02-23T00:00:00Z",
         "EndUtc": "2023-03-03T00:00:00Z",
         "BaseRateId": "e5b538b1-36e6-43a0-9f5c-103204c7f68e",
         "Days": {
            "Monday": false,
            "Tuesday": false,
            "Wednesday": false,
            "Thursday": false,
            "Friday": true,
            "Saturday": true,
            "Sunday": true
         }
      }
   ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |

> | `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](services.md#service) restrictions will be set in. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](services.md#service) to which the restrictions apply. |
```

> | `Data` | Array of [Restriction clear data](#restriction-clear-data) | required | Clear parameters. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Data` | Array of [Restriction clear data](#restriction-clear-data) | required | Details of the matching conditions and time intervals for clearing restrictions. |
```

#### Restriction clear data
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `Type` | string | required | [Restriction type](#restriction-type). |

> | `ExactRateId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the exact [Rate](rates.md#rate) of the restrictions to be spliced. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ExactRateId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the exact [Rate](rates.md#rate) to which the restriction applies. |
```

> | `BaseRateId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the base [Rate](rates.md#rate) of the restrictions to be spliced. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `BaseRateId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the base [Rate](rates.md#rate) to which the restriction applies. |
```

| `RateGroupId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the [Rate group](rates.md#rate-group) of the restrictions to be spliced. |
| `ResourceCategoryId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the [Resource category](resources.md#resource-category) of the restrictions to be spliced. |
| `ResourceCategoryType` | string | optional | Name of the [Resource category type](resources.md#resource-category-type) of the restrictions to be spliced. |

> | `StartUtc` | string | optional | Start date of the spliced interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. The time must be the midnight of the day when converted to enterprise's local time. |

Reviewer: I think it is better not to use the word "midnight" because it is ambiguous ("23:59:59" is midnight as much as "00:00:00"), better to specify time "00:00:00". And we can reference [Datetime](../guidelines/serialization.md#datetimes) for further guidance.

> | `EndUtc` | string | optional | End of the spliced interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. The time must be the midnight of the day when converted to enterprise's local time. Restriction's `EndUtc` is inclusive meaning restrictions applicable on the date of `EndUtc` will be spliced. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `EndUtc` | string | optional | End date of the spliced interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. The time must be the midnight of the day when converted to enterprise's local time. Restriction's `EndUtc` is inclusive meaning restrictions applicable on the date of `EndUtc` will be spliced. |
```

| `MinPrice` | [Currency value](accountingitems.md#currency-value)| optional | Value of the minimum price per time unit. |
| `MaxPrice` | [Currency value](accountingitems.md#currency-value)| optional | Value of the maximum price per time unit. |

## Clear restrictions

> ### Restricted!
> This operation is currently in beta-test and as such it is subject to change. Use of this operation must be enabled per enterprise. Please contact the Technical Partner Support team in order to enable it.

Deletes restrictions that [match the conditions](#matching-conditions) using the [splicing algorithm](#splicing-algorithm).

> This operation is meant to replace the [restrictions delete](#delete-restrictions) operation as the introduction of [restrictions set](#set-restrictions) makes the delete operation very impractical. This is because the [merging algorithm](#merging-algorithm) makes it very hard to keep track of individual restriction ids.

Reviewer: I would be inclined to reduce all this right down and simply say "This operation can be used in conjunction with [Set restrictions](#set-restrictions)." or "This operation is intended to be used in conjunction with [Set restrictions](#set-restrictions)."

         "ResourceCategoryId": "86336EAC-4168-46B1-A544-2A47251BF864",
         "Days": {
            "Monday": false,
            "Tuesday": false,
            "Wednesday": false,
            "Thursday": false,
            "Friday": true,
            "Saturday": true,
            "Sunday": true
         }
      },
      {
         "Type": "Start",
         "StartUtc": "2023-02-23T00:00:00Z",
         "EndUtc": "2023-03-03T00:00:00Z",
         "BaseRateId": "e5b538b1-36e6-43a0-9f5c-103204c7f68e",
         "Days": {
            "Monday": false,
            "Tuesday": false,
            "Wednesday": false,
            "Thursday": false,
            "Friday": true,
            "Saturday": true,
            "Sunday": true
         }
      }
   ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](services.md#service) restrictions will be set in. |

> | `Data` | Array of [RestrictionClearData](#restriction-clear-data) | required | Clear parameters. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Data` | array of [Restriction clear data](#restriction-clear-data) | required | Clear parameters. |
```

| `ExactRateId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the exact [Rate](rates.md#rate) of the restrictions to be spliced. |
| `BaseRateId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the base [Rate](rates.md#rate) of the restrictions to be spliced. |
| `RateGroupId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the [Rate group](rates.md#rate-group) of the restrictions to be spliced. |
| `ResourceCategoryId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the [Resource category](resources.md#resource-category) of the restrictions to be spliced. |
| `ResourceCategoryType` | string | optional | Name of the [Resource category type](resources.md#resource-category-type) of the restrictions to be spliced. |
| `StartUtc` | string | optional | Start date of the spliced interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. The time must be the midnight of the day when converted to enterprise's local time. |
| `EndUtc` | string | optional | End of the spliced interval in UTC timezone in ISO 8601 format. The time must be the midnight of the day when converted to enterprise's local time. Restriction's `EndUtc` is inclusive meaning restrictions applicable on the date of `EndUtc` will be spliced. |

> | `Days` | [DaysParameters](#days-parameters) | required | The days of week of the restrictions to be spliced. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Days` | [Days parameters](#days-parameters) | required | The days of week of the restrictions to be spliced. |
```
